it will make you look really
professional on the day of your
interview hey guys welcome to another
blackbox training video today we're
going to be talking about tell me about
a time questions also known in the
industry as T-Mac questions now without
prior preparation these questions can be
quite tricky to figure out these
questions are given by recruiters as a
way of them assessing your abilities in
the workplace so for us in aviation we
tend to talk about eight core
competencies these are leadership and
management situational awareness
communication decision making teamwork
knowledge customer service and workload
management so depending on the core
competency will depend on the answer
that you pick that is why it's worth
preparing answers for all of the eight
core competencies prior to going to an
airline interview the star method is by
far the best way to give give a clear
concise and professional answer to T-Mac
questions situation task action and
result it's a nice simple acronym for
you to remember and one that you can
definitely prepare prior to your
interview make it authentic to you
because ultimately if you lie about this
you may be asked in the future and your
story changes so make sure to use a real
example therefore let's go on and
actually run through star and let's see
how we could formulate an answer to one
of the core
competencies Jonathan tell me about a
time when you showed exceptional
leadership abilities first you start
with the situation you give a brief
description of the event that happened
now I would take a personal story so for
example I remember a time when I was a
new Cadet in my first Airline it was a
very poor weather day in the middle of
winter the captain was going to be late
to the aircraft by proxim proximately 1
hour as well stuck in traffic due to an
accident therefore it fell on my
shoulders to lead the team of cabin crew
ground staff and also deal with the
passengers as well there you go I've
painted the situation in a really clear
and concise manner next up is Task and I
would take approximately 30 seconds to
describe this as well so the task I set
out based on the situation was that I
wanted everything prepared ready for the
captain to go to minim delays and get
the passengers on the way as soon as
possible I knew that I would have to
make most of the decision making when it
came to actually preparing for that
flight that day next up is the bulkiest
part of your answer which is the action
these are the things that you actually
done how did you do it what did you do
who did you talk to okay this is when
you can start to bring in other core
competencies as explained earlier to try
and Surround your answer and really
shine in the way that you deliver again
I would approximately answer about 2
minutes or up to 2 minutes for the
action part of the star method arrived
at the crew room I printed off the
flight plans and I looked at the weather
for the day as I mentioned the weather
was very poor therefore I made the
decision to uplift more than one ton of
extra fuel this was in place of delays
on the way out of London stanard and
also known delays on the way into Ria as
well it was very snowy when I
communicated that to the ground staff I
also organized for both front and rear
steps to be attached to the aircraft the
front steps of the aircraft were
unserviceable I then met the cabin crew
and briefed them on the day we accepted
the fact the captain was going to be
late and that we were going to have to
deal with the passengers who were
potentially going to be very unhappy
therefore we also decided to do an early
tea and coffee service because it was a
very early flight one of the decisions
we made was to board the passengers on
time and this was just in case the
captain was able to get to the aircraft
earlier than previously scheduled I then
proceeded to pre-flight the aircraft
doing the exterior inspection and then
coming in and doing all of the Interior
I wanted the captain fully ready to go
when he got onto the aircraft as a
Finishing Touch I was able to call the
company and ask them if they wish me to
do anything else and in the meantime I
also proceeded to do a PA to the
passengers explaining the situation and
asking for their patience the result was
the captain got to the aircraft 10
minutes prior to his original ETA and
we're able to get airborne within those
10 minutes and get on our way to Ria so
there's a good example of the star
method and I think you agree even though
I was only asked about leadership I was
pretty much able to touch on all of the
other seven core competencies leadership
and management was the main question but
I showed situational awareness
communication ation definitely decision
making definitely teamwork a good level
of knowledge in respect to the fuel
amount that I wanted to
uplift customer service in relation to
the PA that I done to the the passengers
and having being aware of how the
passengers may feel about the delay
especially that early in the morning and
then workload management doing the
exterior inspection coming in and doing
the interior as well so even though I
was only asked about leadership I was
able to demonstrate a lot more from that
given situation remember T-Mac questions
aren't always given in a positive way
and what I mean by that is the recruiter
may decide to give you a negative
question with teamat for example I've
been asked before tell me about a time
when you have made a mistake on the
flight deck so formulating these answers
can obviously be more difficult what I
would recommend is is that you prepare
these answers prior to going to the
interview so you've got a a set of
examples in your toolbox to be able to
use to give to the recruiter when
answering those negative star answers
make sure to always finish with a
positive result what did you learn from
that experience and how did you resolve
that negative experience if they're
asking you things about resilience I.E
emergencies when flying again what did
you learn from that experience and what
will you do in the future always make
sure to wrap that answer into to a nice
positive finish to show the recruiter
that you're self-aware and that you're
taking actions to learn from those
mistakes and that's why putting the work
in to formulating answers prior to your
interview can be a really nice way for
you to reduce your stress on the day
stop you from getting flustered and also
show off your abilities in any given
situation so that concludes the tutorial
on the T-Mac questions with star method
if you've got any question questions
whatsoever please don't hesitate to get
in contact there will be more to come on
blackbox trining doco.com
[Music]
oh